---
date created: 2024-09-25 16:39
---

# Intro

This doc focuses on some conventions to streamline development process and facilitate decision making in certain cases.

# Rationale

Like a code style, some development practices are good be standardised to ensure cognitive load decline. This is vital for increasing development speed. The programmer should think less about "grammatical" twists, syntactic stuff, and "what approach to chose". Here such standartisations will reside.

# Naming Persistable Entities and Their in-Memory Twins

## Rationale

SwiftData has some disappointing intricacies concerning mutating `@Model` objects on the fly. Therefore any modifications and passing here and there should be made with `Model` (not `@Model`) entities.

## Convention

Entities that are stored in SwiftData should:

- have `Object` suffix
- implement `PersistentObject` protocol

Entities that are stored in memory, but hold the same data, as persistent objects, should:

- have `Model` suffix
- implement `PersistableModel` protocol

Example

Entity for persistent storage:

```swift
@Model
final class ProblemObject {

    var problem: String
    var solution: Int
    var solved: Bool

    init... // omitted for brevity
}

extension ProblemObject: PersistentObject {

    func convertToModel() -> ProblemModel {
        ProblemModel(
            problem: problem,
            solution: solution,
            solved: solved
        )
    }
}

```

In-memory entity that holds the same data:

```swift
final class ProblemModel {

    var problem: String
    var solution: Int
    var solved: Bool

    init... // omitted for brevity
}

extension ProblemModel: PersistableModel {

    func convertToObject() -> ProblemObject {
        ProblemObject(
            problem: problem,
            solution: solution,
            solved: solved
        )
    }
}
```

# Using Periphery

1. Select `Periphery` scheme
2. Build
3. Look at the logs
4. Fix warnings of unused code
5. Build again to handle false-positives if any

The thing is sometimes periphery cannot even see the usage of symbols in their own module %). So some precaution is advised.

# UI-Testing with `XCUIApplicationHandler`

For convenience and brevity use this class.
