# Problem Generation

[toc]

# Definitions

1. Problem - arithmetical challenge, generated by the system

# Rationale

As discussed at the very beginning, all problem generation logic should be abstracted to separate namespace. This will allow for scalability so the mobile teams would only have to write frontend. Game aspects such as:

1. Problem generation
2. Problem solution check
3. Score tracking
4. Statistics
5. Analytics
6. Insights

will be stored in separate package written in [Rust](https://www.rust-lang.org). See technical consideration of selectig Rust as a primary language for game logic in [Core in Rust](./4_4_TDR%3A%20Core%20in%20Rust.md).

This document is concentrated mainly on how numbers are generated, breaking down the generation anatomy.

# Enforcing Methodology in Code

todo: Write legend for points in text that signify that certain line of methodology should be covered with unit-test

# Problem Generation Methodology

```
> [!TIP]
> It is recommended to use single centralozed instance of rng to save performance.
```

In general, problem generation flow can be enumerated by the follwing steps:

1. Determining the operation
2. Selecting digits capacity
3. Defining the series' upper bound for random number selection
4. Pikcing random number from the series
5. Optional zero-check for division operations

## Determining The Operation

The operation is selected randomly from the finite set of [basic arithmetic operations](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Arithmetic#:~:text=The%20main%20arithmetic%20operations%20are,subtraction%2C%20multiplication%2C%20and%20division.).

## Selecting Digits Capacity

Digits capacity is selected based on provided max capacity number. Capacity is selected randomly from a range where the lower bound is always 1 and the upper bound is the max capacity number. Selected capacity is later used to determine the range from which the random number will be selected.

## Defining the upper and lower bounds for random number selection range

Upper and lower bounds of number selection series are determined via formulas:

- $\text{always zero}$

- $\text{max value}=10^{\text{maxValueExponent}} - 1$

## Pikcing random number from the range

The number is selected randomly and stored into a `var`.

## Optional zero-check for division operations

In some cases the number should not be zero. If, in such context, it appears to be zero, fallback random selection engages. There, random number is selected from the range, where the lower bound is `1` and the upper bound is max value.

## Constructing Division Problems Over Multiplication

When constructng division problem via the above described algorithm, two challenges arise:

- How to avoid zero rhs's?

- How to avoid fractional solution?

First one is tackled with optional zero-check for division operations. Second is dealt with through constructing and solving multiplication problem. Once constructed, it's solution (product) is taken as a dividend and one of the factors selected as a divisor. Therefore the solution cannot be fractional.